What's new in Compose Multiplatform 1.8.0-beta01 (#317)
JetBrains/kotlin-multiplatform-dev-docs: topics/whats-new/whats-new-compose-180.md

[//]: # (title: What's new in Compose Multiplatform %composeEapVersion%)
Here are the highlights for this EAP feature release:

* [Variable fonts](#variable-fonts)
* [Drag-and-drop on iOS](#drag-and-drop)
* [Improved accessibility on iOS](#accessibility-support-improvements)
* [Preloading of resources for web targets](#preloading-of-resources)
* [Integration with browser navigation controls](#browser-controls-supported-in-the-navigation-library)

> See the full list of changes for this release [on GitHub](https://github.com/JetBrains/compose-multiplatform/blob/v1.8.0-beta01/CHANGELOG.md).

Reviewer: If the pattern holds (and there's no reason it won't), the correct url after the release will be `https://github.com/JetBrains/compose-multiplatform/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#180-beta01-march-2025`

Author: Thanks, updated! I'll double-check the link before publishing

    val page = navBackStackEntry.arguments?.read { getStringOrNull("page") }
    if (uId != null && page != null) {
        FollowersMainComposable(navController, accountId = uId, page = page)
    }
}
```

## Across platforms

### Variable fonts

Compose Multiplatform %composeEapVersion% supports variable fonts on all platforms.
With variable fonts, you can keep one font file that contains all style preferences such as weight,
width, slant, italic, custom axes, visual weight with typographic color,
and adaptations to specific text sizes.

For details,
see the [Jetpack Compose documentation](https://developer.android.com/develop/ui/compose/text/fonts#variable-fonts).

### Skia updated to Milestone 132

The version of Skia used by Compose Multiplatform, via Skiko, has been updated to Milestone 132.

The previous version of Skia used was Milestone 126. You can see the changes
made between these versions in the [release notes](https://skia.googlesource.com/skia/+/main/RELEASE_NOTES.md#milestone-132).

### Line-height alignment

The common API for line-height alignment,
previously supported by Compose Multiplatform on Android only, is now supported on all platforms.

> Using `LineHeightStyle.Alignment`, you can configure how a text line aligns within the space provided by the line height.

Reviewer: "provided by the line height" sounds strange to me. Maybe "specified by the line height"?

Author: It's used like this in API reference and other official docs about `LineHeightStyle`

On iOS, drag-and-drop session data is represented by [`UIDragItem`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uidragitem).
This object contains information about cross-process data transfer and an optional local object for in-app usage.
For example, you can use `DragAndDropTransferData(listOf(UIDragItem.fromString(text)))` to drag text,
where `UIDragItem.fromString(text)` encodes the text into a format suitable for drag-and-drop operations.
Currently, only the `String` and `NSObject` types are supported.

For common use cases,
see the [dedicated article](https://developer.android.com/develop/ui/compose/touch-input/user-interactions/drag-and-drop) in the Jetpack Compose documentation.

### Accessibility support improvements

#### Support for right-to-left languages

Compose Multiplatform %composeEapVersion% introduces accessibility support for right-to-left languages,
including proper text direction handling for gestures.

#### Accessibility for scrollable lists

This version improves the performance and accuracy of scrolling boundary and element position calculations.

> By carefully accounting for safe areas, such as notches and screen edges,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By accounting for safe areas, such as notches and screen edges,
```

Let's not imply that we only did things carefully in this particular instance :)

to ensure the correct reading order when scrolling and swiping through complex views.

For example, if you want the screen reader to first focus on a floating action button,
you can set its traversal index to `-1f`.
The default value of the index is `0f`,
which means that the lower specified value causes the element to be read before others on the screen.

```kotlin
@Composable
fun FloatingBox() {
    Box(
        modifier =
        Modifier.semantics {
            isTraversalGroup = true
            // Sets a negative index to prioritize over elements with the default index
            traversalIndex = -1f
        }
    ) {
        FloatingActionButton(onClick = {}) {
            Icon(
                imageVector = Icons.Default.Add,
                contentDescription = "Icon of floating action button"
            )
        }
    }
}
```

In addition to proper sorting elements for screen readers,
support for traversal properties enables navigation between different traversal groups with the swipe-up or swipe-down accessibility gestures.
To switch to accessible navigation mode for containers, rotate two fingers on the screen while VoiceOver is active.

#### Accessible text input

> In this version, we've introduced support for text fields' accessibility traits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Compose Multiplatform %composeEapVersion% we've introduced support for text fields' accessibility traits.
```

It does look strange to use "this" in the beginning of a section.
